Notifying users of available add-on updates (#16636)
nvaccess/nvda: tests/manual/addonStore.md

## Updating add-ons

### Simulate creating an updatable add-on from the Add-on Store

> Without having a previously installed add-on get an update, it is hard to naturally test updatable add-ons.

Reviewer: This wording is awkward.

```suggestion
Without having an installed add-on which has an update pending, it is hard to test updatable add-ons.
```

This process allows you to spoof an update for an add-on.

1. [Install an add-on from the Add-on Store](#install-add-on)
For example: "Clock".
1. Go to your NVDA user configuration folder:
    - For source: `.\source\userConfig\addons`
    - For installed copies: `%APPDATA%\nvda\addons`
1. To spoof an old release, we need to edit 2 files:
    - Add-on Store JSON metadata
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addons\clock.json`
        - Edit "addonVersionNumber" and "addonVersionName": decrease the major release value number.
    - Add-on manifest
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addons\clock\manifest.ini`
        - Edit "version": decrease the major release value number to match earlier edits.

> ### Updating from add-on installed from Add-on Store

Reviewer: In addition to the wording clarity suggestion below, I would like to echo the AI's opinion that we should have blank lines around headings. It makes reading easier, and is far more standard in non-NVA MD documents.

I would think it also made reading the source visually easier, but in reading it with speech, reading rapidly and hitting blank lines around headings helps them stand out in a large wall of speech.

```suggestion
### Updating from add-on originally installed via Add-on Store
```

1. [Simulate creating an updatable add-on from the Add-on Store](#simulate-creating-an-updatable-add-on-from-the-add-on-store)
1. Open the Add-on Store
1. Ensure the same add-on you edited is available on the Add-on Store with the status "update".
1. Install the add-on again to test the "update" path.

### Updating from add-on installed externally with valid version
1. [Install an add-on from the Add-on Store](#install-add-on)
For example: "Clock".
1. Go to your NVDA user configuration folder:

>     - For source: `.\source\userConfig\addons`

Author: I'll add reference to portable copies

## Updating add-ons

### Simulate creating an updatable add-on

Without having an installed add-on which has an update pending, it is hard to test updatable add-ons.
This process allows you to mock an update for an add-on.

1. [Install an add-on from the Add-on Store](#install-add-on)
For example: "Clock".
1. Go to the "addons" folder in your [NVDA user configuration folder](#editing-user-configuration)
1. To mock an old release, we need to edit 2 files:
    - Add-on Store JSON metadata

>         - Example: `source\userConfig\addons\clock.json`

Author: yes please

### Updating multiple add-ons
### Updating from add-on installed from add-on store
1. [Install an add-on from the add-on store](#install-add-on)
For example: "Clock".
1. Go to your NVDA user configuration folder:
    - For source: `.\source\userConfig`
    - For installed copies: `%APPDATA%\nvda`
1. To spoof an old release, we need to edit 2 files:
    - Add-on store JSON metadata
        - Located in: `.\addonStore\addons\`.
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addonStore\addons\clock.json`
        - Edit "addonVersionNumber" and "addonVersionName": decrease the major release value number.
    - Add-on manifest
        - Located in: `.\addons\`.
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addons\clock\manifest.ini`
        - Edit "version": decrease the major release value number to match earlier edits.
1. Repeat several times to ensure multiple add-on updates are available.
1. Open the Add-on Store
1. Ensure the same add-on you edited is available on the Add-on Store with the status "update".
1. Select multiple add-ons using `shift` and `ctrl`.
1. Using the context menu, install the add-ons.
1. Exit the dialog
1. Restart NVDA as prompted.

> 1. Confirm the up-to-date add-ons are listed in the installed add-ons tab of the Add-ons Store.

Author: The first 3 steps clarify the environment, could you highlight which part is unclear?

> 1. Confirm the up-to-date add-ons are listed in the installed add-ons tab of the Add-ons Store.

Author: This is clarified in step 4

    - Add-on store JSON metadata
        - Located in: `.\addonStore\addons\`.
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addonStore\addons\clock.json`
        - Edit "addonVersionNumber" and "addonVersionName": decrease the major release value number.
    - Add-on manifest
        - Located in: `.\addons\`.
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addons\clock\manifest.ini`
        - Edit "version": decrease the major release value number to match earlier edits.
1. Start NVDA
1. Ensure Automatic update notifications are enabled in the Add-on Store panel
1. Trigger the update notification manually, or alternatively wait for the notification to occur
    1. From the NVDA Python console, find the scheduled thread
        ```py
        from utils.schedule import ScheduleThread
        ScheduleThread.scheduledJobs
        ```
    1. Replace `i` with the index of the scheduled thread to find the job
        ```py
        ScheduleThread.scheduledJobs[i].run()
        ```
1. Test various buttons:
    - Press "Update All": Ensure NVDA installs the add-ons.
    - Press "Close": Ensure if Add-ons have been installed that NVDA prompts for restart afterwards

>     - Press "Open Add-on Store": Ensure NVDA opens to the Updatable tab in the Add-on Store

Author: These are already included

1. Install the add-on again to test the "migrate" path.

### Updating multiple add-ons
1. [Install an add-on from the add-on store](#install-add-on)
For example: "Clock".
1. Go to your NVDA user configuration folder:
    - For source: `.\source\userConfig`
    - For installed copies: `%APPDATA%\nvda`
1. To spoof an old release, we need to edit 2 files:
    - Add-on store JSON metadata

>         - Located in: `.\addonStore\addons\`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Located in: `\.addons\`.

```

>         - Example: `source\userConfig\addonStore\addons\clock.json`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addons\clock.json`

```

        - Edit "addonVersionNumber" and "addonVersionName": decrease the major release value number.
    - Add-on manifest
        - Located in: `.\addons\`.
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addons\clock\manifest.ini`
        - Edit "version": decrease the major release value number to match earlier edits.
1. Repeat several times to ensure multiple add-on updates are available.
1. Open the Add-on Store
1. Ensure the same add-on you edited is available on the Add-on Store with the status "update".
1. Select multiple add-ons using `shift` and `ctrl`.
1. Using the context menu, install the add-ons.
1. Exit the dialog
1. Restart NVDA as prompted.
1. Confirm the up-to-date add-ons are listed in the installed add-ons tab of the Add-ons Store.

### Automatic update notifications
1. [Install an add-on from the add-on store](#install-add-on)
For example: "Clock".
1. Go to your NVDA user configuration folder:
    - For source: `.\source\userConfig`
    - For installed copies: `%APPDATA%\nvda`
1. To spoof an old release, we need to edit 2 files:
    - Add-on store JSON metadata

>         - Located in: `.\addonStore\addons\`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Located in: `.\addons\`.

```

>         - Example: `source\userConfig\addonStore\addons\clock.json`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Example: `source\userConfig\addons\clock.json`

```
